# Huffman File Compression Program

This C program implements file compression using Huffman coding technique. Huffman coding is a method of lossless data compression that works by building a binary tree of variable-length codes where the shorter codes are assigned to more frequent characters.

## Motivation

- **Storage Efficiency**: The primary motivation behind this project is to create a file compressor that can significantly reduce the storage required for storing files.
- **Security**: By compressing files locally, the risk of confidential information leakage during online file compression is mitigated.
- **Learning Opportunity**: Implementing Huffman coding provides an opportunity to understand the concept of greedy algorithms and their application in data compression.
- **Skill Improvement**: Developing a file compressor enhances skills in data structures like trees and programming in C.

## Objective

The main objectives of this project include:

- Implementing an efficient, reliable, and user-friendly file compressor using Huffman coding.
- Creating a tool that can compress and decompress files, saving memory by up to 40%.
- Gaining understanding and proficiency in Huffman coding and its implementation in C programming.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

- Ensure you have a C compiler installed on your system.

### Running the Program

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Compile the `huffman_compression.c` file using a C compiler.
    ```bash
    gcc huffman_compression.c -o huffman_compression
    ```
3. Run the compiled executable, specifying the input text file path as an argument.
    ```bash
    ./huffman_compression
    ```

## Files Included

- `Project4.c`: The main C program file containing the implementation of Huffman coding for file compression.
- `input1.txt`: Sample input text file used for compression.
- `output.huff`: Compressed output file generated by the program.

## Contributors

- [Akshat Jain](https://github.com/akshat-d-jain)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

